src/runtime_src/doc/toc/formats.rst, before:

.. _formats.rst:

Binary Formats
--------------

xclbin
~~~~~~

``xclbin`` container format is defined in file ``xclbin.h``. Since
2017.1, tools use ``xclbin2`` format also known as AXLF format. AXLF is
an extensible, future-proof container of (bitstream/platform) hardware
as well as software (MPSoC/Microblaze ELF files) design data.  This
unified container can hold outputs of our hardware compilers (SDAccel
``xocc``) as well as software compilers (processor ELF formats for
MPSoc/Microblaze). This allows for easier integration of embedded
processors and SDx on the same device. It also has structures to
describe the memory topology, acceleration kernel instantiations and
kernel connectivity for each kernel.

The compiler generates unique ``xclbin`` file for every design
compiled. The Vivado front-end tools programmatically
populate this file (layout described in ``core/include/xclbin.h``,
attached) and then the runtime & device drivers read the information and apply
it accordingly.

The path to ``xclbin.h`` is ``runtime/core/include/xclbin.h`` under
SDx installation directory.

Feature ROM
~~~~~~~~~~~

Feature ROM is like a BIOS like table for FPGA which describes key
properties of the device like its name and features enabled in the
Shell of the platform. The format for the data in Feature ROM is
defined in file ``xclfeatures.h``. It a section of memory mapped BRAM
memory which can be used for data sharing, error checking,
functionality discover and optimizations in SDx. The Vivado tools will
programmatically capture and populate BRAM memory in the platform
during platform creation time. Runtime components like drivers read it
and enable functionality in driver and also use the information to
perform hardware/software compatibility checks.

The path to ``xclfeatures.h`` is
``runtime/core/include/xclfeatures.h`` under SDx installation
directory.

Commit message:

More refinement of XRT docs (#1949)

src/runtime_src/doc/toc/formats.rst, after:

.. _formats.rst:

Binary Formats
--------------

xclbin
~~~~~~

**xclbin** container format (also known as AXLF) is defined in file
``xclbin.h``. The file uses **xclbin2** as the magic word. AXLF is
sections based extensible container. Different sections store different
parts of compiled application like bitstreams for PL (FPGA fabric), ELF
for AIE tiles and embedded processors like Microblaze. It also contains
well structured metadata to define memory topology, IP layout of instantiated
peripherals and compute kernels, clocking details and kernel connectivity
for each compute kernel.

The compiler generates unique xclbin file tagged with UUID for every application
compiled. Each xclbin also has a another UUID which defines its compatbility to
the Shell. Scout compiler generates this file as part of xocc and end-users
load this file via XRT xclLoadXclbin() API. XRT userspace and kernel space
components consume different sections of xclbin by programming the hardware
and initializing key data structures in XRT userspace libraries and XRT
kernel drivers.

xclbins can also be signed. More information can be found in :ref:`security.rst`.

The path to ``xclbin.h`` is ``xrt/include/xclbin.h`` inside XRT
installation directory.

XRT provides a very powerful utility, **xclbinutil** which can be used to read/write/change
xclbins. More information can be found in the section on :ref:`xclbintools.rst`

Feature ROM
~~~~~~~~~~~

Feature ROM is like a BIOS like table for FPGA which describes key
properties of the device like its name and features enabled in the
Shell of the platform. The format for the data in Feature ROM is
defined in file ``xclfeatures.h``. It a section of memory mapped BRAM
memory which can be used for data sharing, error checking,
functionality discover and optimizations in SDx. The Vivado tools will
programmatically capture and populate BRAM memory in the platform
during platform creation time. Runtime components like drivers read it
and enable functionality in driver and also use the information to
perform hardware/software compatibility checks.

The path to ``xclfeatures.h`` is ``xrt/include/xclfeatures.h`` inside
XRT installation directory.
