src/runtime_src/doc/toc/system_requirements.rst, before:

System Requirements
-------------------

Host Platform
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. x86_64
2. AARCH64
3. PPC64LE

Xilinx Accelerator Card
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. VCU1525 (xilinx_vcu1525_dynamic_5_1)
2. KCU1500 (xilinx_kcu1500_dynamic_5_0)
3. AWS F1 (xilinx_aws-vu9p-f1_dynamic_5_0)

Software Platform
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

XRT and OpenCL runtime require Linux kernel 3.10 and GCC with C++11 features. The stack has been tested on RHEL/CentOS 7.4 and Ubuntu 16.04.4 LTS. CentOS/RHEL 7.4 requires additional steps to get C++11 tool set. Detailed dependencies and instructions are below.

CentOS/RHEL 7.4
...............

Please install *EPEL 7* by following instructions at https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL

Then install required packages using the provided script ``src/runtime_src/tools/scripts/xrtdeps.sh``

Installing C++11 build tools on CentOS 7.X
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

 sudo yum install centos-release-scl (CentOS)
 sudo yum install devtoolset-6

Installing C++11 build tools on RHEL 7.X
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

 sudo yum-config-manager --enable rhel-server-rhscl-7-rpms
 sudo yum install devtoolset-6

Switching to C++11 build environment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

 scl enable devtoolset-6 bash

Ubuntu 16.04.4 LTS
..................

Install required packages using the provided script ``src/runtime_src/tools/scripts/xrtdeps.sh``

Commit message:

Updated documentation for 2018.3 and cleaned up header files (#742)
* Minor cleanups

Restrict number of cuncurrent clients to 32 (CR-1016174)

* Refactored DMA data integrity test

* Update documentation for Sphinx

Add new diagrams for XRT stack and multi-process support

Clean up header files to call out deprecated functions and highlight execute APIs

* Add a new docs command for build.sh

Update docs with newly generated document files

src/runtime_src/doc/toc/system_requirements.rst, after:

System Requirements
-------------------

Host Platform
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. x86_64
2. AARCH64
3. PPC64LE

Xilinx Accelerator Card
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. VCU1525
2. U200
3. U250
4. U280
5. AWS F1


Software Platform
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

XRT and OpenCL runtime require Linux kernel 3.10 and GCC with C++11 features. The stack has been tested on RHEL/CentOS 7.4, 7.5 and Ubuntu 16.04.4 LTS, 18.04.1 LTS. CentOS/RHEL 7.4, 7.5 require additional steps to get C++11 tool set and a few dependent libraies. Please use the provided script ``src/runtime_src/tools/scripts/xrtdeps.sh`` to install the dependencies for both CentOS/RHEL and Ubuntu distributions. Additional information for RHEL/CentOS is below.

CentOS/RHEL 7.4, 7.5
....................

XRT requires *EPEL 7* and SCL repositories. The included xrtdeps.sh script will attempt to automatically configure the repositories and download the required dependent packages.

Switching to C++11 build environment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

 scl enable devtoolset-6 bash
