src/runtime_src/doc/toc/yocto.rst, before:

.. _`Yocto Recipes For Embedded Flow`:

Yocto Recipes For Embedded Flow
-------------------------------

XRT provide Yocto recipes to build libraries and driver for MPSoC platform.
This page explains how to build Linux image by PetaLinux Tool.
It is NOT targeting to be a PetaLinux document or user guide.
Please read PetaLinux document before you read the rest of this page.

*NOTE* The purpose of this page is only for easy to get started.
If you are interested in details about creating software images for embedded platform.
Please read the Software Platform section of Xilinx Document UG1146.

Prerequisite
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before start to build Linux image, make sure your have:
        1. PetaLinux tool chain installed and setup;
        2. Hardware Definithion File(.hdf) for your platform;

The PetaLinux tool chain can be downloaded from xilinx.com.
If you don't have a .hdf file, please see :ref:`Build Boot Images`.

Create PetaLinux Project with XRT recipes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All of the XRT recipes are in ``<XRT>/src/platform/recipes-xrt`` directory. Where <XRT> is the root directory of your XRT git repository.

.. code-block:: bash

        # Replace <name> in below commands
        $ petalinux-create -t project -n <name> --template zynqMP

        # Get HDF file, which is exported by Vivado
        $ petalinux-config -p <name> --get-hw-description=<HDF>

        # Go to the project specific directory of the project
        $ cd <name>/project-spec/meta-user/

        # Copy XRT recipes
        $ cp -r <XRT>/src/platform/recipes-xrt .

        # If you are using PetaLinux 2018.3 or earlier version, do below steps
        $ mkdir recipes-xrt/opencl-headers
        $ wget -O recipes-xrt/opencl-headers/opencl-headers_git.bb http://cgit.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded/plain/meta-oe/recipes-core/opencl-headers/opencl-headers_git.bb

The above commands create PetaLinux project and add necessary recipes to build XRT library and driver. Please check all the .bb files for details.

The next step is to add all recipes to PetaLinux Rootfs Menu.
Still stay in ``meta-user`` directory. Open ``recipes-core/images/petalinux-image.bbappend`` then add below lines at the end.

        | IMAGE_INSTALL_append = " xrt-dev"
        | IMAGE_INSTALL_append = " xrt"
        | IMAGE_INSTALL_append = " zocl"

Add XRT kernel node in device tree
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An example of device tree is in ``<XRT>/src/runtime_src/driver/zynq/fragments/xlnk_dts_fragment_mpsoc.dts``. You can attach it to ``project-spec/meta-user/recipes-bsp/device-tree/files/system-user.dtsi`` in your PetaLinux project.

Configure Linux kernel and enable XRT module
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now we can configure linux kernel and rootfs.
Please see the comments in below code block. Enable "xrt" and "xrt-dev" options will install XRT libraries and header files to /opt/xilinx/xrt directory in rootfs. Enable "zocl" option will install zocl.ko in rootfs. The zocl.ko driver is a XRT driver module only for MPSoC platform.

.. code-block:: bash

        #Configure Linux kernel (default kernel config is good for zocl driver)
        $ petalinux-config -c kernel

        # Configure rootfs, enable below components:
        #   menu -> "user packages" -> xrt
        #   menu -> "user packages" -> xrt-dev
        #   menu -> "user packages" -> zocl
        $ petalinux-config -c rootfs

        # Build package
        $ petalinux-build

You can find all output files from images/linux directory in your PetaLinux project.
These files can be used when creating an embedded platform.

- ``image.ub``
- ``bl31.elf``
- ``fsbl.elf``
- ``pmufw.elf``
- ``u-boot.elf``

Commit message:

This is a workaround when user need to install opencl header into rootfs

src/runtime_src/doc/toc/yocto.rst, after:

.. _`Yocto Recipes For Embedded Flow`:

Yocto Recipes For Embedded Flow
-------------------------------

XRT provide Yocto recipes to build libraries and driver for MPSoC platform.
This page explains how to build Linux image by PetaLinux Tool.
It is NOT targeting to be a PetaLinux document or user guide.
Please read PetaLinux document before you read the rest of this page.

*NOTE* The purpose of this page is only for easy to get started.
If you are interested in details about creating software images for embedded platform.
Please read the Software Platform section of Xilinx Document UG1146.

Prerequisite
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before start to build Linux image, make sure your have:
        1. PetaLinux tool chain installed and setup;
        2. Hardware Definithion File(.hdf) for your platform;

The PetaLinux tool chain can be downloaded from xilinx.com.
If you don't have a .hdf file, please see :ref:`Build Boot Images`.

Create PetaLinux Project with XRT recipes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All of the XRT recipes are in ``<XRT>/src/platform/recipes-xrt`` directory. Where <XRT> is the root directory of your XRT git repository.

.. code-block:: bash

        # Replace <name> in below commands
        $ petalinux-create -t project -n <name> --template zynqMP

        # Get HDF file, which is exported by Vivado
        # It will show a menu to config this project, use below config to avoid password for login.
        #       menu -> "Yocto Setting" -> "Enable Debug Tweaks"
        $ petalinux-config -p <name> --get-hw-description=<HDF>

        # Go to the project specific directory of the project
        $ cd <name>/project-spec/meta-user/

        # Copy XRT recipes
        $ cp -r <XRT>/src/platform/recipes-xrt .

        # If you are using PetaLinux 2018.3 or earlier version, do below steps
        $ mkdir recipes-xrt/opencl-headers
        $ wget -O recipes-xrt/opencl-headers/opencl-headers_git.bb http://cgit.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded/plain/meta-oe/recipes-core/opencl-headers/opencl-headers_git.bb

The above commands create PetaLinux project and add necessary recipes to build XRT library and driver. Please check all the .bb files for details.

The next step is to add all recipes to PetaLinux Rootfs Menu.
Still stay in ``meta-user`` directory. Open ``recipes-core/images/petalinux-image.bbappend`` then add below lines at the end.

        | IMAGE_INSTALL_append = " xrt-dev"
        | IMAGE_INSTALL_append = " xrt"
        | IMAGE_INSTALL_append = " zocl"
        | IMAGE_INSTALL_append = " opencl-headers-dev"

Add XRT kernel node in device tree
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An example of device tree is in ``<XRT>/src/runtime_src/driver/zynq/fragments/xlnk_dts_fragment_mpsoc.dts``. You can attach it to ``project-spec/meta-user/recipes-bsp/device-tree/files/system-user.dtsi`` in your PetaLinux project.

Configure Linux kernel and enable XRT module
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now we can configure linux kernel and rootfs.
Please see the comments in below code block. Enable "xrt" and "xrt-dev" options will install XRT libraries and header files to /opt/xilinx/xrt directory in rootfs. Enable "zocl" option will install zocl.ko in rootfs. The zocl.ko driver is a XRT driver module only for MPSoC platform.

.. code-block:: bash

        #Configure Linux kernel (default kernel config is good for zocl driver)
        $ petalinux-config -c kernel

        # Configure rootfs, enable below components:
        #   menu -> "user packages" -> xrt
        #   menu -> "user packages" -> xrt-dev
        #   menu -> "user packages" -> zocl
        $ petalinux-config -c rootfs

        # Build package
        $ petalinux-build

You can find all output files from images/linux directory in your PetaLinux project.
These files can be used when creating an embedded platform.

- ``image.ub``
- ``bl31.elf``
- ``fsbl.elf``
- ``pmufw.elf``
- ``u-boot.elf``
